---
Title: "Like Treacle, Solving Perl Net::SFTP Slow Transfer Speeds"
Description: "Like Treacle, Solving Perl Net::SFTP Slow Transfer Speeds"
Tags: ["big data","cloud","distribution","internet","networking","perl","programming","unix"]
Date: "2012-02-19"
Categories:
  - "blog"
Slug: "liketreaclesolvingperlnetsftpslowtransferspeeds"
---

<p>I've been trying to track down problems with really slow network transfer speeds between my servers and several DSPs. I knew it wasn't local I/O, as we could hit around 60Mb/s to some services, whereas the problematic ones were a sluggish 0.30Mb/s; I knew we weren't hitting our bandwidth limit, as cacti showed us daily peaks of only around 500Mb/s of our 600Mb/s line. </p><p>I was working with the network engineer on the other side, running tcpdump captures while uploading a file and analysing that in Wireshark's IO Graphs - stream looked absolutely fine, no lost packets, big non-changing tcp receive windows. We were pretty much stumped, and the other engineer recommend i look into <a href="http://www.psc.edu/networking/projects/hpn-ssh/">HPN-SSH</a>, which does indeed sound very good, but first i started playing around with trying different ciphers and compression.</p><p>Our uploads are all run via a perl framework, which utilises Net::SFTP in order to do the transfers.<a href="https://github.com/sideb0ard/speedTester" target="_blank"> My test program was also written in perl</a> and using the same library. In order to try different cyphers i started testing uploads with the interactive command line SFTP. Boom! 6Mb/s upload speed. Biiiig difference from the Net::SFTP client. I started playing with blowfish cipher and trying to enable compression with Net::SFTP - it wasn't really working, it can only do Zlib compression, which my SSHD server wouldn't play with until i specifically enabled compression in the sshd_config file.</p><p>After much more digging around, i came across reference to <a href="http://search.cpan.org/~salva/Net-SFTP-Foreign-1.69/lib/Net/SFTP/Foreign.pm">Net::SFTP::Foreign</a>, which uses the installed ssh binary on your system for transport rather than relying on the pure perl Net::SSH.</p><p>Syntax is very similar, so it was a minor rewrite to switch modules, yet such a massive payback, from 0.30Mb/s up to 6Mb/s. </p><p>(It turns out the DSPs i mentioned earlier who could achieve 60Mb/s were actually FTP transfers, not SFTP)</p>
